General Writing Guideline
Break Down Complex Topics
Organize ideas into sections. Break each section into subsections if that makes sense.
Each paragraph should convey one idea.
It may make sense to organize sections in a sequential order.
Source Your Facts
Backup ALL your facts with links to evidence preferably from a reliable/reputable site with some authority in the market.
Include all reference links within the content pointing to the exact deep page containing the information not the top level domain so we can easily refer to them in the final publication.
Writing and Style
You don't necessarily need to follow a strict editorial style, however you should keep all your grammar, punctuation and formatting consistent.
For example, if you choose to use the % sign instead of spelling the word 'percent' then do this throughout all your articles.
If preferred, you can follow Associated Press (AP) Style Guidelines; some further info here.
Show Personality(IMPORTANT!!)
Your articles should demonstrate the writer's (or ghostwriter's) personality. This can be by sharing anecdotes and your own opinions (without being divisive!). You should write in a clear and informal way, almost like you're talking to a friend—and use pronouns and possessive pronouns (e.g. I, me, we, you, your, my, our) to talk directly to your readers.
Short Sentences and Paragraphs
Short sentences and paragraphs are much more effective and easier to read. Stand-alone sentences and single words can work too.
Correct: "Acne sucks! Tonight's your cocktail party with the girls and you've woken up with the map of a small country on your face in red pimples. Does this sound familiar? Well never fear, because we've got just the solution!"
NO Salesy Language
Wrong: "You'll find peace of mind when your dog finally stops barking!"
Wrong: "You can rest easy knowing your dog's behavior troubles are finally over."
Wrong: Anything else that sounds like it could be in an infomercial
Instead, use conditional language (if, might, could, may, maybe) to make recommendations:
Correct: "This might be a good choice for those who want an in-home training option."
Correct: "If it's important to you to find a positive dog trainer, this may be a good place to start."
Avoid Passive Language
Write in the active voice:
Wrong: "To give you the best choice a ton of products were reviewed."
Correct: "I reviewed a ton of products to give you the best choice."
Avoid Technical Jargon
If you need to use any technical language (or acronyms), explain in clear detail what it means.
Wrong: "POH is one of the most commonly reported aesthetic complaints to dermatologists."
Correct: "Dark circles, or periorbital hyperpigmentation (POH) is one of the most commonly reported aesthetic complaints to dermatologists."
Widen the Vocabulary
Avoid repetition by using a wider range of vocabulary in your articles:
Wrong: "These running shoes could be a great addition to your running training and may help you achieve great results."
Correct: "These running shoes could be a fantastic addition to your exercise regime and may help you achieve great results."
An online thesaurus is always useful.
Always Add Value and Avoid Filler Language
Every sentence should add value to your article; ask yourself if each sentence is necessary and if it enhances the quality of writing.
Always add useful/valuable information.
No BS'ing.
Wrong: "If your dog is acting up, you might need a dog trainer" (…duh).
Wrong: "This company teaches your dog to walk politely. They also offer leash training." (…says the same thing twice).
Wrong: Anything else that doesn't add information to the article.
Formatting/Structure
Use Heading 2,3,4 cascading headlines for section and subsection headings. Heading1 should not be used at it will be the title.
Use 'Normal Text' for the rest of the content.
Do not Bold or Underline headings.
